activity1/

Task 1

What is difference between queue and stack?
The primary difference between Stack and Queue Data Structures is that Stack follows LIFO while Queue follows FIFO data structure type.
 LIFO refers to Last In First Out. 
It means that when we put data in a Stack, it processes the last entry first. Conversely, FIFO refers to First In First Out.


Task 3

 ‪1.What is the difference between Array Implementation and the Linked List Implementation of Stacks. Refer to the following link:‬‏
Array gets memory allocated in the Stack section. Whereas, linked list gets memory allocated in Heap section.

2.What is the difference between Array Implementation and the Linked List Implementation of Queues. Refer to the following link:

The linked list versions have better worst-case behavior, but may have a worse overall runtime because of the number of allocations performed. 
The array versions are slower in the worst-case, but have better overall performance if the time per operation isn't too important.


activity2/


Task 1: Arrays

Discuss in group whether the following statements are True or false.

 1.Reading from an array takes one step.
True
 2.Searching an array of N elements takes up to N steps e.g. for an array of 5 elements, the maximum number of steps is 5. For an array of 500 elements, the maximum number would take is 500.
True
 3.Insertion of an element in an array of length N, takes (N + 1) steps in worst-case scenario.
True
 4.Deletion of an element from an array of length N, takes N steps in worst-case scenario.
True

Task 2: Sets
Discuss in group whether the following statements are True or false.

 Reading from an an array-based set takes one step.
True
 Searching an array-based set of N elements takes up to N steps.
True
 Insertion of an element in an array-based set of length N, takes (2N + 1) steps steps in worst-case scenario.
false
 Deletion of an element from an array-based set of length N, takes N steps in worst-case scenario.
True

Taks 3
Array-based sets are arrays with one additional constraint of barring duplicates. How does this single Rule affect efficiency?

Should we avoid sets because insertion is slower for sets than regular arrays?

*An Array can contain the same value twice while a Set will never contain duplicates. 
  This is also the reason that the above insert method is returning a boolean to indicate whether the insert actually succeeded 





